# BIOMD0000000411: Model_1

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000411.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000411.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This model is from the article:  
**Modeling temperature entrainment of circadian clocks using the Arrhenius equation and a reconstructed model from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii**   
Ines Heiland, Christian Bodenstein, Thomas Hinze, Olga Weisheit, Oliver
Ebenhoeh, Maria Mittag and Stefan Schuster _Journal of Biological Physics_ 4
March 2012; pp 1-16; doi:
[10.1007/s10867-012-9264-x](http://dx.doi.org//10.1007/s10867-012-9264-x) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Endogenous circadian rhythms allow living organisms to anticipate daily
variations in their natural environment. Temperature regulation and
entrainment mechanisms of circadian clocks are still poorly understood. To
better understand the molecular basis of these processes, we built a
mathematical model based on experimental data examining temperature regulation
of the circadian RNA-binding protein CHLAMY1 from the unicellular green alga
Chlamydomonas reinhardtii , simulating the effect of temperature on the rates
by applying the Arrhenius equation. Using numerical simulations, we
demonstrate that our model is temperature-compensated and can be entrained to
temperature cycles of various length and amplitude. The range of periods that
allow entrainment of the model depends on the shape of the temperature cycles
and is larger for sinusoidal compared to rectangular temperature curves. We
show that the response to temperature of protein (de)phosphorylation rates
play a key role in facilitating temperature entrainment of the oscillator in
Chlamydomonas reinhardtii . We systematically investigated the response of our
model to single temperature pulses to explain experimentally observed phase
response curves.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2012 The BioModels.net Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html) .  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


